# 2015-IndStudy-rbryan
Rebecca Bryan's Honor's work 

Note: The file is the in format (ID, Date, LAC). LAC is the "location area code," the unique code for each location area. Each user is listed in blocks. For example, all location areas visited by one user is listed first, all location areas visited by the second user is listed after, etc.

Introduction

Although cell phones are a relatively recent innovation, they have become a staple to billions of people worldwide. These devices are brought almost everywhere the user goes and are depended on for various functions, from instant communication to driving directions. It is rare in the United States to find someone without a cell phone and this dependence is creating  a new and difficult problem: how is location privacy of an individual protected? My research aims to help discover a way for location privacy to be possible.

In order for cell phones to have service, they need to be identified and authenticated by cellular network providers using the Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM), which is the default global standard for mobile communications. This system is intricate and important to understand for my research. Cellular network operators supply and control subscriber identification module (SIM) cards within cell phones, which, as their name implies, uniquely identifies every subscriber. The SIM card holds three unique numbers: (1) a serial number, the integrated circuit card identifier (ICCID), (2) a identification number, the international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI), and (3) a key to identify and authenticate the user. These three numbers are necessary to properly provide billing, authentication, and emergency 911 service by the operator. However, these operations allow cellular network operator to know the general location of every subscriber based on when and where their phones send a “location update.”

Since each phone needs to update its location whenever it moves to a new location area, the cellular network provider can keep track of the locations of the subscriber. A location area is comprised of multiple “cells” (hence, “cell-phone”) and as a user moves within the cells of a location area, the cellular network provider can also keep track of whenever the user connects to the network within the location area. This causes a difficult situation, for as a person moves in their day-to-day life with their cell phone, the little device creates an intricate map of the owner’s private life.

In the past, there has been research to develop a cell phone that provides location privacy. In particular, Sung et al. proposed the “ZipPhone” that has a virtual SIM card that can be retrieved from a Internet-accessible third party and changed whenever necessary to allow the user to remain anonymous. This is akin to research performed by Mulder et al, which proposed a similar method of masking a cell phone subscriber’s identity. In Mulder et al’s research, it was found that even if a subscriber could virtually change their SIM card, there is still a high probability that the person can be de-anonymized if the cellular service provider has past records of location updates that identify the user, known as the “passive carrier attack.” However, the research done in Sung et al. proposes that the “ZipPhone” has a very low probability of a subscriber being de-anonymized even if there are past records of location updates identifying the user given more realistic assumptions.  My research focuses on determining the effectiveness of Sung et al.’s method of de-anonymizing users, for their data analysis is based on a limited data set and a single classifier from Mulder et al. The goal of the research is to both extend the results of the Sung et al.’s original research and produce a more accurate analysis of ZipPhone’s effectiveness against the passive carrier attack. My research will add essential analysis to the possibility of cell phone location privacy and will help the ongoing effort of providing location privacy for all cell phone users.

Background

Among research analyzing location privacy of cell phone carriers, there have been two notable papers, "Identification via Location-Profiling in GSM Networking" by Mulder et al. and "Location Privacy without Carrier Cooperation" by Sung et al. Both papers agree that since people are becoming more dependent on cell phones and cellular network providers require knowledge of subscribers’ locations in order to properly route calls, there is a serious threat to location privacy of all cell phone users. Mulder et al’s paper claims that location privacy is practically impossible given that a cellular network provider may retain a profile of previous locations visited and this profile can easily identify unknown users. Sung et al, on the other hand, disagrees with Mulder et al’s findings and claims that, in realistic circumstances, there is a small probability of success that an individual user can be correctly identified. Although Mulder et al’s research provides a more realistic study and results, the results are based on a limited dataset and uses only one classifier to identify users when there may be other, more effective classifiers.

Method

We are using phone user information from a Reality Mining dataset that has been made available by MIT Media Lab (1). It is comprised of 100 people, 75 MIT students or faculty in the MIT Media Laboratory and 25 incoming students at MIT Sloan business school, who volunteered to be tracked over the course of a year. Each person tracked is given a unique user-ID and the information of all cell-phone updates are recorded, including every location area visited, the time and date when the location area was visited, and the duration of the phone calls. This dataset allows us to simulate an environment where we can analyze the effectiveness of de-anonymizing cell phone users based on their location information. 